Q:->What are the advantages and disadvantages of each of the two scheduling policies? Also, give the advantages and disadvantages of the round_ robin scheduling policy originally implemented in Xinu.

A: Exponential scheduler:
Advantages:
1. Since the process to be executed are choosen based on the random values that are generated, each process would be atleast executed.
2. Probability of lower priority processes to be executed is more. In most of the other schedulers, the lower priority process generally    have to starve.


Disadvantages:
1. Since the random numbers generation tendency is more towards the lower value and lesser towards the higher value. The chances of higher priority processes to be scheduled becomes lesser. 
2.The processes with very high priority may even starve.  


Linux-like scheduler:

Advantages:
1.All the processes irrespective of their priorities would be scheduled to execute in a given epoch. And this resolves the starvation problem.
  Although higher priorities (goodness value) processes would be scheduled first followed by lower priorities.

2. If a process is not able to utilise its complete CPU time (due to sleep etc) in a given epoch. Its time would be added in the next epoch and thus its goodness value will increase and more preference would be given to it in its next epoch. 

Disadvantage:

1. The processes created during a current on-going epoch, have to wait till next epoch to get scheduled.
2. Even if the process created have very high priority, then also it has to wait until all the processes in the current on-going epoche used up their time quantum.

XINU:

Advantages:
1.Higher priority processes are scheduled first.
2. Ready list is well organised on the basis of priorities of processes and, process at the end of the ready list (one before tail) is scheduled.


Disadvantages:
1. Lower priority processes have to wait till the execution of higher priority processes are over and thus it may lead to starvation.




Q->2 Describe the way each of the schedulers affects the NULL process.


Exponential scheduler:
If there is no process in the ready list, then the null process is scheduled.

Linux Like:
If all the proccesses have a goodness value of 0. That means all the processes have used up their time quantum. In that case NULL process is scheduled.


Xinu:
If there is no process in the ready list, then it is scheduled.
